Statistics are used by data
scientists to collect, assess, analyse, and derive conclusions from data, as well as to apply
quantitative mathematical models to applicable variables.

2 main types of statistics:
-Descriptive statistics
     It is used by researchers to report on population and samples.
     It gives summary descriptions of measurements taken about a group.

Descriptive statistics include measurements of central tendency and measures of variability
(spread). Central tendency metrics include the mean, median, and mode, whereas variability
measures include standard deviation, variance, minimum and maximum variables, kurtosis,
and skewness.A data set's properties are summarised or described using descriptive statistics.
    There are two types of measures in descriptive statistics: measures of central tendency
and measures of variability (or spread).
The centre of data collection is defined using central tendency measures.
In short, it helps to describe and understand the features of a particular data set by using
various samples and measures of the data.

Methods for determining an outlier:
 Sorting the data and looking for extreme values
 By data visualizing (Boxplot, Scatterplot, etc.)
 IQR method
 Z-Score method

Standard deviation: A standard deviation is a number that describes how far measurements
for a group differ from the mean (mean or expected value).

σ = √
∑(Xi − μ)
2
N
2

Where σ = Population standard deviation
N = the size of the population
Xi = each value from the population
μ = the population mean

Variance: A variance is a measure of how much a group of data is spread out from its mean
value, and it is a measure of how far data points differ from the mean.

σ
2 =
1
n
∑(Xi − μ)

Range: In a data set the range is the difference between the highest and lowest values.
Formulae to calculate range is given by:
Range = Highest value – The lowest value

Z =
(X − μ)
σ

The maximum measure of kurtosis is +3. A positive kurtosis value (+3) indicates a distribution with heavier tails and a sharper peak compared to the normal distribution. This type of distribution is called leptokurtic. On the other hand, a negative kurtosis value (-3) indicates a distribution with lighter tails and a flatter peak compared to the normal distribution. This type of distribution is called platykurtic.

A kurtosis value of 0 indicates a normal distribution, which is referred to as mesokurtic. It means that the distribution has similar tail behavior and concentration of data around the mean as the normal distribution.

Difference between Covariance and Correlation
 Correlation is simply a normalized form of covariance. It is obviously important to be
precise with language when discussing the two, but conceptually they are almost
identical.
 The value of the correlation coefficient ranges from [-1 – 1]. -1 is indicated for a
negative relationship. 1 means a positive relationship. 0 means no relationship.

correlation =

cov(x, y)
σx ∗ σy